Let's build a native
application with Quarkus
now. Starting with lab
native-build start script,
we are going to go into the
lab working directory,
which is DO378/labs/native-build/expense-service/.
If we look at the application.properties,
it doesn't yet contain the
settings for the native build.
We are going to use a containerized native
build to avoid having to install
Mandrel and tedious configuration
that is associated with that.
So we are going to add the quarkus.
native.container-build
property, set it to true.
Set the native.builder-
image to be mandrel-20
based on rhel8 from
registry.access.redhat.com
and we are going to use
the container-runtime of
podman because that's what
we have got on our workstation.
So starting the application in dev mode
first, of course that is not the most
optimal type of running the application.
It would have been more comparable if we
built a JAR file and then
started it with java minus jar.
However, in dev mode,
just as an illustration,
Quarkus takes, there we go 1.75 seconds to start,
which is quite fast.
And if we have a look at the
memory utilization here,
the resident set size,
which is the actual amount
of memory it's occupying,
is almost half a gigabyte,
so, 469 megabytes.
If we send the request,
the response is actually quite good.
It's less than 30 milliseconds.
Now, let's stop the container,
the Java-based container, and let's
re-package this in native mode.
This is going to take
close to 5 minutes,
so you can see some
dependencies being downloaded.
Eventually, you will see that
the mandrel-20-rhel8:latest
image is being pulled.
A container is being started
and then a native image
source jar is being built.
And a native image from that
jar is being created.
You will have seen various status reports or
finally, there is a podman
run command with
the parameters needed for the
NativeImageBuild to start.
You will have seen various stage reports
with memory utilization data as well.
You can see that it is
quite memory intensive.
It goes up to 8 gigabytes
for our simple application.
And it does have various
long-lasting stages.
In total,
this one wasn't that bad,
it was just over 2 minutes.
For the code analysis in the compilation,
the total augmentation into
native code took just a little
bit over 3 minutes.
And the Build was a SUCCESS of
course.
If we have a look at the target directory,
we see there is a runner binary here.
It's size is 80 megabytes.
Now that's not how much it's
going to occupy in memory.
So if we started,
the first thing we'll see is it starts in
75 milliseconds as
opposed to 1.75 seconds,
in Java mode.
If we have a look at memory utilization,
it's only occupying 50 megabytes.
So if we send a curl request,
we see that the performance
is relatively similar.
But that is of course,
with a single request only.
It would have been beneficial if we made
some sort of a parallel stress test.
At any rate, we have built
our native application.
We can now clean up by running lab
native-build finish script,
and move on to the next video.
We are going to look at how to build
containerized native
applications. See you there.